Why you need "cross-origin isolated" for powerful features (#2705)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/why-coop-coep/index.md

---
title: Why you need "cross-origin isolated" for powerful features
subhead: >
  Learn why cross-origin isolation is needed to use powerful features such as
  `SharedArrayBuffer`, `performance.measureMemory()`, and the JS Self-Profiling
  API.
description: >
  Some web APIs increase the risk of side-channel attacks like Spectre. To
  mitigate that risk, browsers offer an opt-in-based isolated environment called
  cross-origin isolated. Learn why cross-origin isolation is needed to use
  powerful features such as `SharedArrayBuffer`, `performance.measureMemory()`,
  and the JS Self-Profiling API.
authors:
  - agektmr
  - domenic

> hero: hero.jpg

Reviewer: Can you use one of the other images in the post as the hero?

I understand that some people want to use the same image to get the idea across that they're all part of the same series, but we've received feedback that using the same image looks like a copy-paste error on web.dev/blog (e.g. it looks like someone copied the last post and forgot to change the hero). If you use one of the other images I think it conveys the idea that they're part of the same series (because they all have the same illustration style)

Reminder that the hero should be 3200px wide and 960px tall and only lightly optimized (Squoosh is best). You can also specify a `thumbnail` if it doesn't look good on web.dev/blog, which should be 376px by 240px

This one seems like it could work for the hero (without the legend in the top-right):

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4713486/80670154-093ef780-8a5b-11ea-8b77-b8136555fc45.png)

Author: Good idea. I'll replace the hero image.

date: 2020-05-01
tags:
  - post
  - security
---
## Introduction
In [Making your website "cross-origin isolated" using COOP and
COEP](https://web.dev/coop-coep/) we explained how to adopt to "cross-origin
isolated" state using COOP and COEP. This is a companion article that explains

> why cross-origin isolation is required to enable powerful features on the browser.
> 
> {% Aside 'key-term' %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
why cross-origin isolation is required to enable powerful features on the browser.

Check out the [Summary](#summary) for a quick explanation of what you need
to do on your site.

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
```

(Optional suggestion that can be ignored but I do feel strongly that it's a good practice)

I really like that summary at the bottom and I think we should make it easier for people to discover. Often times when I read documentation I just want a quick explanation of what I need to do. They'll still need to read the rest of the content to understand how to implement what's described in the summary, but the summary gives them a quick overview of what actions they'll need to take.

Author: The longer version of the "summary" is the very article linked at first. Pointing to the "summary" will be a redundant duplicate to that so I will go with current state.

This article uses many similar-sounding terminologies. To make things 
clearer, let's define them first:

* [COEP: Cross Origin Embedder 
  Policy](https://wicg.github.io/cross-origin-embedder-policy/)
* [COOP: Cross Origin Opener 
  Policy](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/5334/files)
* [CORP: Cross Origin Resource 
  Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Cross-Origin_Resource_Policy_(CORP))
* [CORS: Cross Origin Resource 
  Sharing](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS)
* [CORB: Cross Origin Read 
  Blocking](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/corb-for-developers)
{% endAside %}

> ## Why you need "cross-origin isolated" for powerful features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Background

```

This section heading is the exact same text as the page title

cross-origin resources are called "opaque" resources. For example, this is why
manipulating the pixels of a cross-origin image via `CanvasRenderingContext2D`
fails unless CORS is applied to the image.

All these policy decisions are happening within a browsing context group.

![Browsing Context Group](browsing-context-group.png)

For a long time, the combination of CORS and opaque resources was enough to make
browsers safe. Sometimes edge cases (such as [JSON
vulnerabilities](https://haacked.com/archive/2008/11/20/anatomy-of-a-subtle-json-vulnerability.aspx/))
were discovered, and needed to be patched, but overall the principle of not
allowing direct read access to the raw bytes of cross-origin resources was
successful.

This all changed with
[Spectre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spectre_(security_vulnerability)), which
makes any data that is loaded to the same browsing context group as your code
potentially readable. If `evil.com` embeds a cross-origin image, they can use a
Spectre attack to read its pixel data, which makes protections relying on
"opaqueness" ineffective.

![Spectr](evil-actor.png)

Ideally, all cross-origin requests should be explicitly vetted by the server

> that owns the resource, i.e. an opt-in approach. If vetting is not provided by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that owns the resource, in other words an opt-in approach. If vetting is not provided by
```
https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#ie

the resource-owning server, then the data will never make it into the browsing

> context group of an evil actor, and therefore stay out of reach of any Spectre

Reviewer: ```suggestion
context group of an evil actor, and therefore will stay out of reach of any Spectre
```

Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: cross-origin
```

Resources that are marked `same-site` can only be loaded from the same site,
`same-origin` from the same origin. [`cross-origin` which was added to the CORP
spec along with COEP](https://mikewest.github.io/corpp/#integration-fetch)
declares that a resource can be loaded by any website.

{% Aside %}
Once you add the COEP header, you won't be able to bypass the restriction by
using service workers. If the document is protected by a COEP header, the policy
is respected before the response enters the document process, or before it
enters the service worker that is controlling the document.
{% endAside %}

### Cross Origin Opener Policy {: #coop }
[COOP (Cross Origin Opener
Policy)](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/5334/files) allows you to ensure
that a top-level window is isolated from other documents by putting them in a
different browsing context group, so that they cannot directly interact with the
top-level window. For example, if a document with COOP opens a pop-up, its
`window.opener` will be `null`. Also, the `.closed` property of the opener's
reference to it will return `true`.

![COOP](coop1.png)

> COOP header takes three values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The COOP header takes three values:
```

group with same-origin documents that are also explicitly marked `same-origin`.

![COOP](coop2.png)

A top-level document with `same-origin-allow-popups` retains references to any
of its popups which either don't set COOP or which opt out of isolation by
setting a COOP of `unsafe-none`.

![COOP](coop3.png)

`unsafe-none` is the default and allows the document to be added to its opener's
browsing context group unless the opener itself has a COOP of `same-origin` or
`same-origin-allow-popups`.

{% Aside %}
The
[`noopener`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open#Window_features)
attribute has a similar effect to what you would expect from COOP except that it
works only from the opener side. (You can't disassociate your window when opened
by a third party.) When you attach `noopener` by doing something such as
`window.open(url, '_blank', 'noopener')` or `<a target="_blank"
rel="noopener">`, you can deliberately disassociate your window from the opened
window.

While `noopener` can be replaced by COOP, it's still useful for when you want to
protect your website in browsers that don't support COOP.

> {% endAside %}
> 
> If you want guaranteed access to powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endAside %}

## Summary {: #summary }

If you want guaranteed access to powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`,
```

![Browsing Context Group](browsing-context-group.png)

For a long time, the combination of CORS and opaque resources was enough to make
browsers safe. Sometimes edge cases (such as [JSON
vulnerabilities](https://haacked.com/archive/2008/11/20/anatomy-of-a-subtle-json-vulnerability.aspx/))
were discovered, and needed to be patched, but overall the principle of not
allowing direct read access to the raw bytes of cross-origin resources was
successful.

This all changed with
[Spectre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spectre_(security_vulnerability)), which
makes any data that is loaded to the same browsing context group as your code
potentially readable. If `evil.com` embeds a cross-origin image, they can use a
Spectre attack to read its pixel data, which makes protections relying on
"opaqueness" ineffective.

![Spectr](evil-actor.png)

Ideally, all cross-origin requests should be explicitly vetted by the server
that owns the resource, in other words an opt-in approach. If vetting is not provided by
the resource-owning server, then the data will never make it into the browsing
context group of an evil actor, and therefore will stay out of reach of any Spectre

> attacks a web page could carry out. We call it a cross-origin isolated state.

Author: This is to clarify the attack comes from a web page rather than a server. I'd leave it as is.

document from loading any cross-origin resources which don't explicitly grant
the document permission (using CORP or CORS). With this feature, you can declare
that a document cannot load such resources. 

![How COEP works](coep.png)

To activate this policy, append the following HTTP header to the document:

```http
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp
```

The `require-corp` keyword is the only accepted value for COEP. This enforces
the policy that the document can only load resources from the same origin, or
resources explicitly marked as loadable from another origin.

For resources to be loadable from another origin, they need to support either
Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) or Cross Origin Resource Policy (CORP).

### Cross Origin Resource Sharing {: #cors }
If a cross origin resource supports [Cross Origin Resource Sharing
(CORS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS), you may use the
[`crossorigin`
attribute](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/crossorigin)
to load it to your web page without being blocked by COEP.

```html
<img src="https://third-party.example.com/image.jpg" crossorigin>
```

> For example, if this image resource is served with CORS headers, use  the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if this image resource is served with CORS headers, use the
```

`crossorigin` attribute so that the request to fetch the resource will use [CORS
mode](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Request/mode). This also
prevents the image from being loaded unless it sets CORS headers.

Similarly, you may fetch cross origin data through the `fetch()` method, which
doesn't require special handling as long as the server responds with [the right
HTTP
headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS#The_HTTP_response_headers).

### Cross Origin Resource Policy {: #corp }
[Cross Origin Resource Policy
(CORP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Cross-Origin_Resource_Policy_%28CORP%29)
was originally introduced as an opt-in to protect your resources from being
loaded by another origin. In the context of COEP, CORP can specify the resource
owner's policy for who can load a resource.

> ```http
> Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-site
> Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-origin
> Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: cross-origin
> ```
> 
> Resources that are marked `same-site` can only be loaded from the same site,
> `same-origin` from the same origin. [`cross-origin` which was added to the CORP
> spec along with COEP](https://mikewest.github.io/corpp/#integration-fetch)
> declares that a resource can be loaded by any website.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy` header takes three possible values:

* `same-site`: Resources can only be loaded from the same site.
* `same-origin`: Resources can only be loaded from the same origin.
* `cross-origin`: Resources can be loaded by any website. ([This
   value](https://mikewest.github.io/corpp/#integration-fetch) was added to the
   CORP spec along with COEP.)
```

Reviewer 2: I should have marked this before. This is the preferred way to do this.

{% Aside %}
Once you add the COEP header, you won't be able to bypass the restriction by
using service workers. If the document is protected by a COEP header, the policy
is respected before the response enters the document process, or before it
enters the service worker that is controlling the document.
{% endAside %}

### Cross Origin Opener Policy {: #coop }
[COOP (Cross Origin Opener
Policy)](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/5334/files) allows you to ensure
that a top-level window is isolated from other documents by putting them in a
different browsing context group, so that they cannot directly interact with the
top-level window. For example, if a document with COOP opens a pop-up, its

> `window.opener` will be `null`. Also, the `.closed` property of the opener's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`window.opener` property will be `null`. Also, the `.closed` property of the opener's
```

reference to it will return `true`.

![COOP](coop1.png)

The COOP header takes three values:

```http
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin-allow-popups
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: unsafe-none
```

Documents that are marked `same-origin` can share the same browsing context

> group with same-origin documents that are also explicitly marked `same-origin`.

Reviewer 2: Copy what I did for `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy`.

Author: Done

![COOP](coop2.png)

A top-level document with `same-origin-allow-popups` retains references to any
of its popups which either don't set COOP or which opt out of isolation by
setting a COOP of `unsafe-none`.

![COOP](coop3.png)

> `unsafe-none` is the default and allows the document to be added to its opener's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `unsafe-none` value is the default and allows the document to be added to its opener's
```

browsing context group unless the opener itself has a COOP of `same-origin` or
`same-origin-allow-popups`.

{% Aside %}
The
[`noopener`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open#Window_features)
attribute has a similar effect to what you would expect from COOP except that it

> works only from the opener side. (You can't disassociate your window when opened

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
works only from the opener side. (You can't disassociate your window when it is opened
```

by a third party.) When you attach `noopener` by doing something such as
`window.open(url, '_blank', 'noopener')` or `<a target="_blank"
rel="noopener">`, you can deliberately disassociate your window from the opened
window.

While `noopener` can be replaced by COOP, it's still useful for when you want to
protect your website in browsers that don't support COOP.
{% endAside %}

## Summary {: #summary }

If you want guaranteed access to powerful features like `SharedArrayBuffer`,
`performance.measureMemory` or JS Self-Profiling API, just remember that your
document needs to use both COEP with the value of `require-corp` and COOP with
the value of `same-origin`. In the absence of either, the browser will not
guarantee sufficient isolation to safely enable those powerful features. You can

> determine your page's situation by checking if `self.crossOriginIsolated`

Reviewer 2: Please provide a link.

Author: Done

<img src="https://third-party.example.com/image.jpg" crossorigin>
```

For example, if this image resource is served with CORS headers, use the
`crossorigin` attribute so that the request to fetch the resource will use [CORS
mode](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Request/mode). This also
prevents the image from being loaded unless it sets CORS headers.

Similarly, you may fetch cross origin data through the `fetch()` method, which
doesn't require special handling as long as the server responds with [the right
HTTP
headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS#The_HTTP_response_headers).

### Cross Origin Resource Policy {: #corp }
[Cross Origin Resource Policy
(CORP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Cross-Origin_Resource_Policy_%28CORP%29)
was originally introduced as an opt-in to protect your resources from being
loaded by another origin. In the context of COEP, CORP can specify the resource
owner's policy for who can load a resource.

The `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy` header takes three possible values:

```http
Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-site
Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-origin
Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: cross-origin

> ```

Reviewer 2: Please remove this. It's redundant and it's not a code sample.

Author: I left these intentionally because i thought some developers won't understand what to do with the http header without actual sample. If you have other alternative to solve that, I'd happy to use the idea.

Reviewer: The `Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy` header takes three possible values:

    ```http
    Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-site
    ```

    `same-site`: Resources can only be loaded from the same site.

    ```http
    Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-origin
    ```

    `same-origin`: Resources can only be loaded from the same origin.

    ```http
    Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: cross-origin
    ```

    `cross-origin`: Resources can be loaded by any website. ([This
    value](https://mikewest.github.io/corpp/#integration-fetch) was added to the
    CORP spec along with COEP.)

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I like it. Fixed.

   value](https://mikewest.github.io/corpp/#integration-fetch) was added to the
   CORP spec along with COEP.)

{% Aside %}
Once you add the COEP header, you won't be able to bypass the restriction by
using service workers. If the document is protected by a COEP header, the policy
is respected before the response enters the document process, or before it
enters the service worker that is controlling the document.
{% endAside %}

### Cross Origin Opener Policy {: #coop }
[Cross Origin Opener Policy
(COOP)](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/5334/files) allows you to ensure
that a top-level window is isolated from other documents by putting them in a
different browsing context group, so that they cannot directly interact with the
top-level window. For example, if a document with COOP opens a pop-up, its
`window.opener` property will be `null`. Also, the `.closed` property of the
opener's reference to it will return `true`.

![COOP](coop1.png)

The `Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy` header takes three possible values:

```http
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin-allow-popups
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: unsafe-none

> ```

Reviewer 2: Same here.

Reviewer: See my other example

Author: I made changes following Kayce's suggestion.
